Welcome back.
How did you do with the random game.
Were you able to solve it.
Let's give it a try.
Here now.
I'm just going to use the test stockpile.
Actually let's just rename it just so it's not confusing I'm going to rename it to random not random
random game by all right now in here I want to be able to first of all.
Well let's think about what we need.
So the first thing we need is to generate a number one through 10 then while we need to do next is to
get an input from user.
Right.
And then we want to do some sort of an input check.
So let's say check that input is a number one through ten and then check if if number is the right guess.
Otherwise ask again.
So that seems like a good program that we can write.
So how can we do this.
Well the first task is to generate a number one to 10.
I know that I'm definitely going to want to import the random library from here and specifically there
Rand.
And so I can just say from random import Rand and which we've seen.
And here I can generate the numbers.
So let's call it the answer is going to be Rand and from 1 to 10.
So this is going to be our machine generated random number that we need to try and guess next is we
have to get the input from the user.
So how can we do this.
Well simple right.
We can get a guess as input from the user and we get the prompt.
So we'll say guess a number one through 10 all right.
So that's looking good.
What about check that input that it's a number one to 10.
So we have to do a bit of checking here now because we want to keep looping while the user is guessing.
I'm going to do a while True loop that we have to make sure we break out of.
So we don't have an infinite loop and in the first part of the while loop I want to check what the user
inputs.
So I'm going to say if guess.
Well we know right away that the input is going to give us a string.
So we have to make sure we convert this into an end first.
So let's do that.
I'm going to say
Aunt gas is greater than 1 and it guess is less than eleven.
So in our case let's do zero here because we want to make sure that if it's one it's still good if it's
10 it's still good in that case.
Well we can actually try and check if it's the right guess.
Now what happens if this fails.
What if the user enters a string that can't be turned into an end.
For example if I go to my terminal here and I just turn on the Python interpreter and say it and then
just give it some gibberish I get a value Error Invalid literal for int with base 10 I have no idea
what you're trying to do.
So we can check for a value error here.
So what I'm going to say is to try
this bit of code and for now we'll just pass in here.
And if for some reason it doesn't pass and we'll check for value error then I'm going to print Please
enter a
a number awesome.
So we're checking that the input is a number one to 10 so for now just to make sure that this is working.
Let's just do this.
Let's break out of this loop for print all good in here and break out of this loop considering that
right now we're entering a number one to 10.
Let's just make this a little bit smaller.
Just so you can see it better.
There you go and for here we'll just do continue because we'll just keep looping until well until we
get the right answer.
So again we're importing Rand and generating some random number one to 10 we're getting the guess from
the user.
And then we want to check that the input is a number one to ten.
So I have a loop that I'm going to keep running and I'm going to ask is the number zero to eleven if
it is then we're all good.
If for some reason we get a valuer then we're going to say hey please enter a number.
So let's just test that up.
I'm going to go to my terminal or actually we can just run this here.
Let's run it all right.
Yes a number one to 10
and I get all good.
I think we need a couple of spaces here.
It looks a little weird.
So let's just say Guess a number want to 10 and get some spaces.
Let's run that again.
There you go.
And I've actually already noticed in a bug that we need to fix if let's say I enter gibberish oh boy
God Please enter a number please enter a number and we need to stop this because it's going to get destroyed
right.
So what happened here.
Well we didn't break out of this loop.
We continued and we just kept going wall to wall to wall through and we kept getting a value error.
So you have to be careful here.
Remember when we continue.
It goes back to the try block or what back to the while loop and it's going to try this again but we're
not asking for the input or a new input again.
This is going to fail and then another value happens and then this is going to fail another valley error
happens.
So we need to put the gas
inside here right inside of the tribe block.
So now if I run this all right let's get the number let's give gibberish I got hey please enter a number.
All right we'll enter a number will.
We'll enter.
How about zero.
No.
This doesn't work it's going to keep asking me because well the number that we entered.
It's less than 1 to 10 but it's a wrong answer.
We could check is wrong you know.
Let's do that.
Let's say else we'll say Hey Bozo.
I said 1 to 10.
I'll be a fun one.
All right let's run this let's do zero.
Hey Bozo I said I want to 10.
All right let's do five
I guess the number want to 10.
Everything's good.
All good.
All right.
So now what I'm going to do is just see if the guess matches whatever the answer right here is.
Now before I do that you see here how the pie chart I.D. gives me a little hint.
A yellow line that says hey this simplified chain comparison can actually be improved.
It's why ideas are so powerful.
And here I can actually simplify this.
I can say if it guess is higher than zero and less than 11 then do this and look at that.
I just simplify my code and the editor gave me a nice hint OK.
Let's go through here.
So instead of saying print all good let's say if this is the case we're going to have another conditional
and say if the end gets equals to the answer we'll print your a genius and we'll break out of that now.
Notice here how we're doing it.
Guess a couple of times maybe a better way of doing it is to just do an end here so we don't repeat
ourself and run the same function over and over and just have guests like this.
So again we're cleaning up our code making it read more like English.
That's nice and now if we run this guy say no let's say five.
No that's not right let's do six seven eight nine.
Guy's a tough cookie.
One two three four.
Oh come on is it 10 Wow.
We are definitely not geniuses because we just ball tried 10 times but this looks like it's working.
Let's make sure that we're actually working this properly by cheating a little bit.
I'm going to actually print out here the answer so I see what the answer is before I type it in.
Let's do that actually right here five click Run.
All right.
The numbers for if I type in for all right now I'm a genius first right.
All right we're cheating but it looks like this is working.
That's pretty cool.
Now the last part here is that up until now I've used the input but I said I wanted to run it in a terminal
and I want to be able to actually well give it parameters right.
We give it the start parameter and the end parameter of randomness so we can make the game as hard as
we want so that's pretty simple.
We have the import system here and we simply say sis dot our GV the first parameter.
Remember the first one is going to be the file name and then the third parameter and that's going to
be the numbers that we giving it.
So let's use this file now.
Let's copy the code and just for this example because it's simpler we'll just add it to our Sublime
Text file and looks like we have to do six dot ARG V here as well.
Make sure we don't forget that.
So let's fix that as well like that.
That's better.
And if we run this not int because remember the parameters that we're gonna give it are going to be
turned into strings.
So we just have to make sure that we convert this into an int like this.
Now if we just copy this run this over here let's run it again.
So I'm pressing up here because I remember as my previous command let's give that I go gets a number
one or two let's go with one.
There you go.
I'm a genius and our program is now working our guessing game is now working very very cool.
If you've got this good job if you did it well you can just take a look my code and hopefully see where
you went wrong.
Good job getting this far.
I'll see in the next one by.